it was a cold winter morning of january
1885. fierce winds blizzard
and freezing temperatures discouraged
anyone from wandering outside at cape
elizabeth maine
head light keeper marcus hannah was
cocooned in a blanket
in the safety of the light station known
as two lights
sick with a severe coal he was sleeping
after a difficult night shift
the man was unaware of a tragedy that
was
unfolding not far from his home
the schooner australia departed from
boothbay maine
at 5 pm on january 27th
the ship was heading for boston and
there were three people on board
the captain and two crew members at
first the journey was uneventful
but not long after the schooner had left
the port
the weather started to worsen by
midnight
a severe storm was pounding southern
maine
in no time the temperatures dropped
below zero
ice in case the ship's mass the snow was
blinding the crew
the men had to get rid of their cargo
because the schooner was listing too
dangerously
to avoid the worst outcome the captain
decided to seek
shelter in portland harbor but luck
wasn't on the seam inside that night
with a deafening crack the battered
mainsail gave way
under the weight of the ice gathered on
it the crew had nothing to do
but wait until the storm calmed down
several miles away from the schooner
marcus hanna was finishing his watch in
the fog signal building
even though both the beacons were
shining bright they looked faint
and almost invisible in the raging
blizzard
but the worst thing about the storm its
roar
prevented hannah from hearing the
australia running aground
and grinding against the club neither
did he hear the shouts for help from the
stranded seamen
just before dawn the light keeper's
assistant hiram staples replaced him
hannah wrapped a scarf around his face
and started for the house
it was about 20 degrees outside but the
howling icy wind made it feel
way colder several times the man had to
crawl on his knees and hands
to fight powerful wind blasts
when he reached home his wife had to pry
the scarf away from his face
the wool had gotten frozen to hannah's
beard
after her husband drank some hot coffee
and settled in bed
mrs louise hannah went to put out the
lamps in each of the towers
suddenly she spotted a dark shade on the
rocky shore
a ship that had run aground the woman
hurried back to the house and woke up
her husband
marcus hannah didn't hesitate with no
thought about his health
or the illness that had made him weaker
the man rushed to the rescue
he slipped on his boots a warm coat and
a hat
and hurried to the fog signal building
through massive snow drifts
he had to alert his assistant the vessel
was stuck
several hundred feet away from the
station hannah and staple saw
two men clinging to the icy rigging they
were stiff from all the ice covering
them
and too cold to shout out for help the
captain
unable to hold on had been swept away in
the dark
several hours before hannah decided to
throw a lifeline to the ship
but they had to work fast the tide was
rising
each wave covered the schooner with more
and more eyes
this additional weight was threatening
to bring the ship down at any moment
meanwhile mrs hanna was alarming other
families at the station
the only person who could be of any help
in that dire situation
with staples 15 year old son hannah sent
him off to gather the neighbors
and while hiram staples was trudging to
the nearby life-saving station
marcus hannah was carefully moving along
the slippery rocks covered in ice
he was battling severe wind blows and
freezing ocean splashes
one slip and he would be swallowed by
the waves
he got as close to the ship as he could
all the while
shouting encouragement to the terrified
crew man
the schooner was too far away from the
shore to reach her without getting
soaked through
hannah went into the surf up to his
thighs and braced himself against some
cliffs
then he started to throw the weighted
rope at the schooner
but all in vain the lifeline either
missed its mark
or slid away before one of the seamen
could grab it
countless failed attempts started to
wear the man down
and hannah knew he wouldn't last much
longer
he decided to have a short break and
stumbled out of the surf to lie down
and regain some strength in a couple of
minutes though
the exhausted man realized he was
falling asleep
it was a sure way to freeze and never
wake up again
hannah sprang to his feet and started to
jump wildly to warm himself up
after flailing his arms and stamping his
feet the man felt more alert
but when he turned back to the sea he
noticed something that made his blood
run cold
the schooner was breaking apart under
the force of the rising tide
it made hannah summon the remaining
strength and renew his attempts
his efforts paid off the very first try
was a success
the rope landed near irving pierce one
of the crewmen
and got stuck there but pierce was
unable to move his frozen
hands even to save his own life then
hannah
along with the second crew member
william keller started to encourage
pierce several minutes later the man
suddenly broke out of his icy cover
grabbed the rope and tied it around his
waist
after he got a signal from hannah the
half frozen pierce
dropped into the sea the light keeper
knew he didn't have time to wait for
anyone to assist him
he mustered what little strength he
still had and started to pull the semen
toward the shore
pierce was bobbing up and down on the
waves like a buoy
hannah was afraid the man wouldn't make
it but he kept pulling
finally the seamen was lying on the
rocks he appeared almost gone
hannah collapsed next to him a moment
later he pulled himself
up untied the rope from pierce and threw
himself into the turbulent surf once
again
keller was still waiting for the light
keeper's help he could move and even
answered hannah's call
it had taken more than a dozen attempts
before the rope landed within williams
reach
he prepared himself for the inevitable
and leaped into the boiling waves
unfortunately hannah had already spent
all his energy
in the middle of the process he started
to hallucinate
but when it seemed nothing could save
keller the light keeper felt
another pair of hands taking over and
pulling the icy rope
it was staples he returned just in time
bringing two other neighbors hannah and
the two survivors were taken to the
steam room of the fog signal building
the storm was still raging and it was
too dangerous to move the exhausted seam
into the house
they were severely frostbitten to warm
them up
their frozen clothes had to be literally
cut off
several days later the men were taken to
the hospital in portland
miraculously they made a complete
recovery
staples helped mrs hannah to carry her
husband to their house
she was afraid that night would take its
toll on the man's health
but astonishingly marcus was up in a
mere two days
he even helped staples get the rescued
seamen to portland by sled
for his devotion to duty and heroism
marcus hannah got the highest award in
the lighthouse service
the gold life-saving medal ten years
later
hannah as a soldier also received the
medal of honor
this made him the only person in history
to receive
both these awards